Add VAO Dashboard section (#187)
chronicleprotocol/documentation: docs/Products/VerifiedAssetOracle/vaoDashboard.md

keywords: [dashboard, Verified Asset Oracle, VAO, RWA Oracle Data]
---
 # Verified Asset Oracle Dashboard

The Verified Asset Oracle Dashboard enables users to visualize data verified by [Chronicle's Verified Asset Oracle](/Products/VerifiedAssetOracle/verifiedAssetOracle.md). It provides insights into key financial metrics associated with verified assets such as Net Asset Value per Share (NAV/S), 7-day average annualized yield, custodian information, and more.

This dashboard is designed to enhance transparency and trust in onchain representations of real-world assets by offering a clear visualization of their value and underlying assets.

# How is the Chronicle Dashboard different from other RWA visual representations?
Chronicle provides end-to-end data about a tokenized fund by connecting directly to the custodian. Users can verify attestation signatures in the browser via the `Verify` button.

The signature process has two layers:

 **1. Publishing to IPFS:** Data is fetched from the custodian, formatted, and published to IPFS. The IPFS URL is content-based, so any change in the data alters the URL, helping detect potential manipulation.

> Data is pulled from the IPFS document stored which can be accessed using a unique [CID (Content Identifier).](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/content-addressing#) The CID itself is a hash of the document, meaning that if the content changes even slightly, the CID will change. This acts like a built-in verification layer, if the CID matches, the content matches as well. There is also a **`?checksum=`** parameter in the URL, which is a hash of the document’s actual contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data is pulled from the IPFS document stored which can be accessed using a unique [CID (Content Identifier).](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/content-addressing#) The CID itself is based on a hash of the document, meaning that if the content changes **at all** (even a single byte), the CID will change. This acts like a built-in verification layer, if the CID matches, the content matches as well. There is also a **`?checksum=`** parameter in the URL, which is a keccak256 hash of the document’s actual contents expressed as a JSON string.
```

`e.g.: ipfs://QmPv8UFfZAk7CiNLAW16ZBic741aWtFMXjbU3KkxrRR8Ma?checksum=0xd3e407f7243336f4ba79027b439bcf6a534ffed8fb4d1cc3acfe014d28127774`

The **CID ensures the data hasn’t been tampered with**, as it won’t resolve if the content changes.

**2. Checksum verification:** A checksum of the data is added and verified on-chain via a verifier contract.

The checksum proves that the content of the document has remained the same since its initial publication.

### Verification Flow

When someone downloads the document from the link:

- They can calculate the hash of the content themselves.
- Then they compare it to the `?checksum=` in the URL (which was previously published).
- If it matches, it proves that the document is the same one that was originally published

## Blockchains

This module shows the contract addresses of all oracles deployed for the asset. These contracts are responsible for reporting the price of the asset on the chain where they are deployed.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
<img
    src="  ../../img/Products/VAO/blockchains.png"
    alt="Blockchains card Illustration"
/>
</div>

> ## Administration

Reviewer: Heads up: The Administration info is only available from certain funds and not others, so it will not be a universal feature of the Dashboard

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
<img
    src="  ../../img/Products/VAO/oracleEvents.png"
    alt="Oracle events card Illustration"
/>
</div>

## Holdings

This section displays all underlying real-world asset holdings that contribute to the asset’s value, AUM and NAV. It allows users to see the precise composition of the fund. Information may include each asset’s value, purchase price, and, where applicable (such as for bonds or warrants), the expiry date.
<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
<img
    src="  ../../img/Products/VAO/holdings.png"
    alt="Holdings card Illustration"
/>
</div>

<!-- Users can check asset verifications in the "Latest Oracle Events" section of the dashboard. This includes details about holdings such as security description, units, maturity dates, unit cost, and base market value.

In the "Administration" section, users can access additional insights, including information about the fund’s custodian, auditor, investment manager, and more. -->

## Transfers

> This section shows all ERC-20 token transfers related to the fund’s tokenized representation. These may correspond to key events such as issuance, purchases, transfers to other accounts, or deposits into DeFi protocols.

Reviewer: Technically this only covers Transfer events (as defined in the ERC20 spec). Other events are covered in the "Onchain Activity" table. Onchain Activity is defined by us as "everything BUT Transfers"
